okay so the first tool we're going to
learn how to use in photo restoration is
known as the clone stamp tool and the
clone stamp tool looks like a regular
rubber stamp and that's in your tool box
and you can see it's called the clone
stamp this is my favorite tool in all of
Photoshop and you can see it looks like
a regular brush paintbrush and along
with that it comes with a lot of the
same brush options and our tool options
at the top that a regular paintbrush
would have including being able to
change the size and the hardness and
softness of the brush edge so I'm going
to keep it at a pretty good size and I
have a relatively hard edge additionally
make sure that your color mode is set to
normal and your opacity is set at 100%
additionally let's make sure that a line
sample is not checked so if it's checked
on yours we're going to uncheck that
what the clone stamp allows us to do is
to copy areas of pixels on one part of a
photograph and to paint them to another
so it's kind of like a copy and paste
tool but also mixed in with a brush tool
let me show you how it will work to
select an area of pixels so like I must
select the lady's eyeball we're gonna
hold down our option key and it's gonna
watch our cursor change from a regular
circle it's almost like a gunsight
circle and I'm gonna click right on the
area of her her eyeball so I'm gonna
click once with my option key held down
now when I move my cursor you can see
the eyeball tends to change and move
with us so if I wanted to start painting
in this area so if I click once and just
start painting over it you can see very
quickly it'll copy all of the pixels
that are in that area as I move around
as long as I have my mouse held down
it quickly paints her face into the
another area of the photograph I can get
her hat and start getting parts of her
dress and you can see it will paint over
whatever is below there also if you'll
notice on my original there's a little
crosshair that's following as I continue
to paint around and that'll allow you to
know where you're copying your pixels
from as you move your cursor around so
do pay attention to not only what you're
painting but where you're painting from
so you pick up just the pixels that you
want to okay and you can see that's one
quick way of of making a copy of
something using the clone stamp again if
I start and click again I can make
another copy of her right on top of
there it's a real quick way of making a
simple copy of things now if I didn't
have my align sample or if I did have it
checked off whenever I started to paint
again it would continue to paint where I
left off from so in other words it
wouldn't start painting another person
it would just continue painting where I
stopped
so if do be careful if you have your a
line sample checked or not checked
because that's very important to know
when you make your your selection I'm
gonna go over to my history palette and
just back up to where I adjusted my
levels so you're saying why is that
important to photo restoration using the
clone stamp is a way of quickly getting
rid of some of these spots that are
throughout the the edges of our
photograph the reason why we want to use
the clone stamp is because our our
background the photo texture isn't just
a solid mass it has a texture or a
speckle texture that we want to keep so
what we want to do is to be able to
clone that speckled texture as we
quickly blot out some of these spots let
me show you how to do it so I'm going to
hold down my option key
and I'm gonna click on an area that's
unblemished and this is a pretty good
area we'll click once I can let up on my
option key now I can go on top of some
of these spots and then just a few
clicks click click click you can see
I've added that texture right on top of
them and I've eliminated a lot of those
spots very very simple very powerful
tool to use and so using the clone stamp
tool and then maybe you have to adjust
some of the the size of the tool and
some of the hardness you can very
quickly get rid of a lot of the unwanted
blemishes found throughout your
photograph additionally over here by
click in just a few clicks you can see I
can get rid of some of these these spots
however you see I have another problem
the area of paper in this area is a lot
lighter than the paper that's on this
area so when I start to click and add a
texture it's almost it's very evident
that I'm covering it up so when you work
in the clone stamp tool it's very
important that you constantly resample
different areas of the paper so it will
look more authentic more real so I want
to copy an area that's a lot closer to
what I want to cover up so this is an
unblemished area so I'm going to hold
down my option key I'm going to click
once I'm going to go over this area and
again
that'll blend in a lot better than what
we had before maybe I'm going to copy
some area up here to cover up this
and area right here and very quickly I
can paint in and paint over a lot of
these spots that are on there already
you see that our photograph is turning
out quite nicely as we use the
constantly resample areas of the
photograph and paint over it using the
clone stamp tool paint and repaint and
in just a few clicks you can see we've
gotten rid of a lot of these dark spots
in the upper area up here and so that's
the clone stamp tool also don't forget
about your history palette that if you
need to back up and maybe you've cloned
over something that's that you didn't
want to use your history palette and
back up I'm gonna use my zoom tool real
quick zoom into the spot that's right on
her face now I'm going to select my
clone tool and move over you can see
it's very big so I'm gonna adjust the
brush size first let's make it even
smaller than that let's make it about 8
pixels I'm going to select an area of
her face that's really close to the spot
and then just one click maybe a couple
clicks completely taken out that spot
again spot right here it's gone and the
spot right on the side of her nose
and so that's how using the clone stamp
tool you can get rid of a lot of
unnecessary and unwanted blemishes from
your photographs